**CID:** 01855361

# Project
This repository is for the submission of your **Computing 2: Applications** coursework.

You should complete the proforma and populate this repository with your project submission.

* **Repository Creation Check:** Tuesday 4th May 18:00 – Update your CID in this file to check your submission.
* **Peer Assessment Deadline:** Tuesday 8th June 18:00
* **Final Submission Deadline:** Thursday 17th June 16:00

# Computing 2 Submission Proforma

For each section, write a maximum of 200 words.

## Brief
My aim with this webapp was to create an interactive, calendar-based task manager to help organise time. Essentially it is a time-sorted to do list, displaying tasks due in the next month on a calendar-style grid, with overdue tasks separately. Tasks are stored in an neDB database to form a permanent datastore, and, while there isn't support for multiple users, several instances can run concurrently (interacting with the same tasks) without issue.

## Coding
I did have HTML/CSS experience before this project, so I started with these elements of the frontend. Once I had a frontend that behaved as I wanted (including page animations), I could move on to the JavaScript elements that make up the backend. This was the lion's share of the work, as handling dates and times is strangely complex - as is pupulating a HTML table using JS. I started by creating an neDB database and data-handling functions, before connecting these to the frontend.

## UX/UI
The UI is very simple, and takes inspiration from Apple's design in that it doesn't use pure black or white anywhere - using very dark and light grays makes it easier on the eyes. The interface is as intuitive as possible and there are not many buttons - and JavaScript animations show/hide areas when they are/aren't being used to minimise clutter.

For WCAG compatibility, all images have alt-text. Input boxes are clearly captioned so that it is clear what they do, and the above colours have been chosen to have a high contrast ratio (and there are dark and light modes available). AXE Dev Tools has been used to check the accessibility of the site. 

## Data
Fundamentally, data are processed at two times: at startup and on user interaction.
At startup, `datahandler.js` queries the database for existing tasks and passes them to `server.js`, which in turn passes them to the client-side javascript which populates relevant tables and lists.

When the user wishes to interact with a task (e.g. mark it as completed, edit, etc), the client-side javascript collects relevant data from the user, and these data are then passed to `server.js`. `Server.js` uses `datahandler.js` to correctly process these data and apply changes in the database. Tasks are identified by an unique task identifier, generated by the neDB database framework used.

Database entries for a task have the following attributes:
* Due datetime (`datetime` object)
* Task name (string)
* Notes (string)
* Tags (array)
* Task completed? (boolean true/false)
* _id, an ID generated by neDB (string)

## Debugging
Many of the functions in `datahandler.js` rely on database and user interaction. This means that they are not suitable for property-based testing, so I have tested these rigorously by using every aspect of the web app. The functions within `datahandler.js` that can be tested with PB tests - `sort_tasts()` and `get_tags()` - have been tested thoroughy. The debugging process is chronicled in the `/debugging/` directory - it's readme and the `.md`s in subdirectories explain the process.

## Best Practice
All files are clearly commented, with `.js` and `.css` files divided into clear sub-sections to explain what each does. Every file (excluding `index.html`) has a contents page to make finding functions easy, and the JavaScript elements of the project are divided into several clearly-named modules. In addition, all files have been checked with JSLint and have passed.
